---
layout: archive
title: ""
permalink: /Research/
author_profile: true
---
# Working Papers
[**1. The Long-term and Distributional Effects of School Consolidations: Evidence from China**.](https://github.com/YuhengZhaoBU/YuhengZhaoBU.github.io/blob/master/files/JMP 1_Yuheng ZHAO_Updated.pdf) 
**(Job Market Paper 1, under review)**    
This paper investigates the allocative consequences of school consolidation, a globally pervasive phenomenon in response to the demographic transition. Rural out-migration and fertility decline during the process of development motivates policymakers in developing countries to close schools in remote and less populated rural areas. I study the impacts of the largest primary school consolidation ever implemented, using the China Health and Nutrition Survey between 1989 and 2015. Employing a generalized Difference-in-Difference (DID) framework that is robust to the heterogeneous treatment effects, I find that school consolidations increased females’ education but not males’ education. In contrast, treated individuals of both genders had higher earnings. I provide suggestive evidence consistent with the mechanisms of enhanced labor market proximity and gender equity after school consolidations. The analysis of the distributional effects indicates that individuals in the middle part of income distribution benefited more from school consolidations, and the increase in inequality was relatively small compared to the efficiency increase. My paper is the first to provide a comprehensive analysis of the distributional effects which is critical to policy evaluation. The trade-offs initiated by the school consolidations analyzed in this paper could apply to many other contexts. 

[**2. Government Brain Drain: Earning, Firm Entry, and Talent Reallocation in Chinese Public Sector Hiring Reform**.](https://github.com/YuhengZhaoBU/YuhengZhaoBU.github.io/blob/master/files/JMP 2_Yuheng ZHAO_Updated.pdf) 
**(Job Market Paper 2)**      
This paper provides reduced form causal evidence on how talent reallocation from the public sector contributed to entrepreneurship and innovation, in a unique Chinese public sector reform in 1994. The reform terminated guaranteed public sector job allocation for tertiary graduates, greatly reducing labor mobility costs across sectors. To alleviate the endogeneity that regions with more tertiary graduates were also more exposed to other reforms, I construct a novel dataset of the tertiary graduate number in different majors across prefectures and pair it with administrative data of firm entry in particular industries. I use three different identification strategies to study the causal impacts of this reform: DID, Regression-Discontinuity Design (RDD), and Difference-in-Regression-Discontinuity (DRD). I find that after the reform, tertiary graduate earnings decreased, and more tertiary graduates worked in the private sector or became entrepreneurs. The resulting talent reallocation led to a boom in the private sector. After the reform, prefectures with more tertiary students who graduated from industry-related majors experienced greater entry of private firms in those industries. The reform also stimulated market-oriented innovation activities such as market design patents and trademarks.



# Work in Progress
**1. Fiscal Decentralization and Resource Misallocation: Evidence from China**. with Marialuz Moreno Badia and W. Raphael Lam (Draft coming soon)  
Can fiscal decentralization and associated regional disparities explain resource misallocation in China? Using a sample of over 300,000 manufacturing firms for the period 1998-2007, we quantify the extent of misallocation and find that vertical imbalance is correlated with a wide efficiency dispersion across provinces. To alleviate potential endogeneity caused by reverse causality and omitting variables, we instrument the funding gap of local government by the product of each province's average share in national transfer and the total net transfer in a given year. Empirical estimates suggest that higher vertical imbalances led to larger across-province differences. The channels appear to be related to a lack of local government funding resulting in financial constraints at the firm level and a larger distortion in the land market.

**2. Non-local Bureaucrats and State Capacity: Southbound Officials in China**.       
I investigate how the assignment of non-local officials by the Chinese central government in the early 1950s (henceforth called "southbound officials") influenced the local social-economic development and policy implementation, which in turn impacted the social capital and trust. I build a county-level dataset for non-local bureaucrats and other county-level social economic outcomes in three provinces in the southern part of China, and randomly select 30 counties in each province to conduct a survey about individuals’ values and identities. A preliminary analysis of the newly collected data suggests that counties with higher share of southbound officials tended to implement policies more effectively in the interest of central government, as those counties had higher ratios of tax over gross domestic outputs and lower population growth rates. The former was an indicator of tax efforts, while the latter was likely to be a result of the strictly implemented one-child policy. On the other hand, counties with a smaller share of southbound officials tended to have more balanced government budgets. As for the social capital, individuals from counties with more southbound officials had higher levels of trust towards people outside of their hometowns. 

**3. Gender Disparities in the Gig Economy: Evidence from 16 million Order-level Data of Chinese Ride-sharing Platforms**. with Wenyu Zhou   
We use an order-level sample of ride-hailing of Hangzhou city. There is rich information on more than 16 million transactions from 184 thousand drivers in December of 2018. Our preliminary gender earnings gap estimates are around 6.5%, which is similar to what Cook et al. (2021) found in the US. Drive miles and times explain about half of the gender wage gap, and the remaining gap is not affected by adding day and company fixed effects. However, only 9.5% of drivers in my sample are female, much smaller than the 30.2% observed among Chicago Uber drivers. These suggest that females in developing countries have substantially less access to the gig economy compared to developed countries. For the next steps, we plan to: (1) Analyze the gender gap in work hour and daily earning across age distributions, which provides an estimate of the "motherhood penalty" which is unlikely to be eliminated in the gig economy; (2) Decompose the gender gap into different attributes; (3) Compare ride-hailing and taxi drivers, with respect to gender gaps in female labor force participation and earnings.

**4. Ex-ante Political Participation and the Heterogeneous Treatment Effects on Long-run Impacts of Gender Quota in India**.   
I study heterogeneous treatment effects of the gender quota in Indian local governments, bearing on the question of whether a one-time impulsion of women’s rights will have long-term impacts when the gender quota is removed. My identification takes the advantage that the gender quotas were assigned randomly.  Using data from Beaman et al (2009) and Chattopadhyay and Duflo (2004), I find that female quotas in Indian local governments in villages with higher historical political participation had: (1) a role model effect, as females were more likely to contest and win in the 2008 ward council election if there was female reservation in 2003, and (2) a selection effect: elected mayors had higher education, more property, and prior political experience. For the next steps, I plan to exploit a household survey conducted between 2004 and 2011 in 89 villages that belong to 57 GPs in West Bengal. The rich information on incomes allows me to examine how the gender quotas, jointly with ex-ante political participation, affected income distribution across households and genders. Together the two sets of findings would help predict the effects of the gender quotas that would persist even after they have been lifted.

**5. From Market to Government: An inquiry into Shanghai Banking System in the 1930s from a Social Network Approach**. with Youngwei Chen   
We investigate the influence of the network structure on bank behavior and performance by constructing an “Interlocking Directorate (ID)” network of Shanghai banks in the 1930s with data from “Almanac of China's Banking”. The importance of a bank node in the ID network and its closeness to the central bank is related to its risk-taking ability and therefore affects its behavior. The free bank system in China fell into government control in 1935 after the financial crisis of silver outflow caused by the Silver Purchase Act. Those banks that were important in the network or close to the central bank in the network tend to have a higher bond asset ratio. But after 1935, the effect of the importance in the network is weakened while that of the closeness to the central bank is strengthened. Both being important in the network and close to the central bank increases a bank’s profit rate, but after 1935, the former effect is weakened, while the latter effect is strengthened. For the next step, we plan to investigate whether banks sought political support by appointing more directors with political backgrounds after 1935.

**6. Minority in the Classroom**.   
